C# 6.0 Feature: using static (#9)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/namespaces.md

Namespaces are implicitly `public` and the declaration of a namespace cannot include any access modifiers.

> Within a *namespace_body*, the optional *using_directive*s import the names of other namespaces, types and members, allowing them to be referenced directly instead of through qualified names. The optional *namespace_member_declarations* contribute members to the declaration space of the namespace. Note that all *using_directive*s must appear before any member declarations.

Reviewer: Any reason *namespace_member_declaration*s was changed to *namespace_member_declarations*? I think the former is correct. (The difference is in whether the trailing "s" is in italics.)

using_directive
    : using_alias_directive
    | using_namespace_directive
    | using_static_directive    
    ;
```

A *using_alias_directive* ([§14.5.2](namespaces.md#1452-using-alias-directives)) introduces an alias for a namespace or type.

A *using_namespace_directive* ([§14.5.3](namespaces.md#1453-using-namespace-directives)) imports the type members of a namespace.

A *using_static_directive* (§using-static-directives) imports the nested types and static members of a type.

> The scope of a *using_directive* extends over the *namespace_member_declarations* of its immediately containing compilation unit or namespace body. The scope of a *using_directive* specifically does not include its peer *using_directive*s. Thus, peer *using_directive*s do not affect each other, and the order in which they are written is insignificant. In contrast, the scope of an *extern_alias_directive* includes the *using_directives* defined in the same compilation unit or namespace body.

Reviewer: Ditto (trailing s) for *using_directives* in the final sentence. (I suspect then that's changed, this paragraph will be as it was before, and we'll only have the new paragraph before it.)

> namespace N3
> {
>     using A = N1.N2.A;

> >

Author: @jskeet This was one type of change I wanted to check on. I think it's better by having the blank line, but it's a very mild preferences. 

For our "coding style", I'd like to say different elements should have a blank line between them. On the other hand, I like a rule that doesn't add a blank line where the element is an empty class or namespace.

See also line 179, 192, 201-203.

Reviewer: Mmm, interesting. I probably wouldn't have added blank lines in 179, 192, 201-203... but I'm quite happy for us to do so, and that should probably be the default. We should just allow ourselves to have an exception for things like:

```csharp
public void M(int x) {}
public void M(string y) {}
public void M(int x, string y = null) {}
```

... in an example about overload resolution, for example.

Author: I agree. I think that's easily handled by adding methods to my exception in the previous comment.

Author: I opened #358 to start the coding standard discussion. 

I'll merge this.

> *Example*:
> ```csharp
> namespace N1 
> {
>     static class A 
>     {
>         public static void M(this string s){}
>     }
> }
> namespace N2
> {
>     using static N1.A;
>     class B
>     {
>         void N() {
>             M("A");      // Error, M unknown
>             "B".M();     // Ok, M known as extension method
>             N1.A.M("C"); // Ok, fully qualified
>         }
>     }
> }
> ```
> the *using_static_directive* imports the extension method `M` contained in `N1.A`, but only as an extension method. Thus, the first reference to `M` in the body of `B.N` results in a compile-time error because no members named `M` are in scope. *end example*

A *using_static_directive* only imports members and types declared directly in the given type, not members and types declared in base classes.

> *Example*:
> ```csharp
> namespace N1 
> {
>     static class A 
>     {
>         public static void M(string s){}
>     }
>
>     static class B : A
>     {
>         public static void M2(string s){}
>     }
> }
> namespace N2
> {
>     using static N1.B;

> >         class C

Reviewer 2: The indentation looks strange.

>         {
>             void N() {
>                 M2("B");      // OK, calls B.M2
>                 M("C");       // Error. M unknown 
>             }
>         }
> }
> ```

> > the *using_static_directive* imports the method `M2` contained in `N1.B`, but does not import the method `M` contains in `N1.A`. Thus, the reference to `M` in the body of `C.N` results in a compile-time error because no members named `M` are in scope. Developers must add a second `using static` directive to specify that the methods in `N1.A` should also be imported. *end example*

Reviewer 2: method `M` contain**ed** in `N1.A`.

> ```
> *end example*

Furthermore, when more than one namespace or type imported by *using_namespace_directive*s or *using_static_directive*s in the same compilation unit or namespace body contain types or members by the same name, references to that name as a *simple_name* are considered ambiguous.

> *Example*:
> ```csharp
> namespace N1
> {
>     class A {}
> }

> > class C

Reviewer: A blank line between each top-level declaration? This is a bit hard to read as-is. (We might want to talk about this - it looks like a lot of examples don't have lines between top-level declarations.)

Author: I did add them here.
I didn't resolve the conversation so we can discuss at the upcoming meeting.

Reviewer: Group decided to add a blank line between peer declarations (other than obvious cases where it would harm readability, e.g. where there are 5 methods one after another, all with an implementation of `{}`, just for signatures etc).

@BillWagner: Do you want to make the change consistently in this PR and we'll work out what to do elsewhere?

Author: I'll make the changes consistently in the areas touched by this PR.

I'll keep notes and make an open issue for all formatting so we have a record of our preferred formatting. Maybe we can get some community help on that task.

> {
>     public static int A;
> }
> namespace N2
> {
>     using N1;
>     using static C;
>     class B
>     {

> >         void M() 

Reviewer: We normally use brace-at-end-of-line for method declarations. (I know, I know...)

The *namespace_name* referenced by a *using_namespace_directive* is resolved in the same way as the *namespace_or_type_name* referenced by a *using_alias_directive*. Thus, *using_namespace_directive*s in the same compilation unit or namespace body do not affect each other and can be written in any order.

### §using-static-directives Using static directives

A *using_static_directive* imports the nested types and static members contained directly in a type declaration into the immediately enclosing compilation unit or namespace body, enabling the identifier of each member and type to be used without qualification.

```antlr
using_static_directive
    : 'using' 'static' type_name ';'
    ;
```
Within member declarations in a compilation unit or namespace body that contains a *using_static_directive*, the accessible nested types and static members (except extension methods) contained directly in the declaration of the given type can be referenced directly.

> *Example*:
> ```csharp
> namespace N1
> {
>    class A 
>    {
>         public class B{}

> >         public static B M(){ return new B(); }

Reviewer: Can we use an expression-bodied method for this? If not, can we have a space between `()` and `{`?

>    }
> }
> namespace N2
> {
>     using static N1.A;
>     class C
>     {
>         void N() { B b = M(); }
>     }
> }
> ```

> > Above, within member declarations in the `N2` namespace, the static members and nested types of `N1.A` are directly available, and thus the method `N` is able to reference both the `B` and `M` members of `N1.A`. *end example*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In the preceding code, within member declarations in the `N2` namespace, the static members and nested types of `N1.A` are directly available, and thus the method `N` is able to reference both the `B` and `M` members of `N1.A`. *end example*
```

(Or something similar - just "Above" sounds a bit bare.)

A *using_static_directive* specifically does not import extension methods directly as static methods, but makes them available for extension method invocation (§12.7.6.3).

> *Example*:
> ```csharp
> namespace N1 
> {
>     static class A 
>     {
>         public static void M(this string s){}
>     }
> }
> namespace N2
> {
>     using static N1.A;

> >         class B

Reviewer: Outdent these 9 lines?

>         {

> >             void N() 

Reviewer: Brace at end of line

>             {
>                 M("A");      // Error, M unknown
>                 "B".M();     // Ok, M known as extension method
>                 N1.A.M("C"); // Ok, fully qualified
>             }
>         }
> }
> ```
> the *using_static_directive* imports the extension method `M` contained in `N1.A`, but only as an extension method. Thus, the first reference to `M` in the body of `B.N` results in a compile-time error because no members named `M` are in scope. *end example*

A *using_static_directive* only imports members and types declared directly in the given type, not members and types declared in base classes.

> *Example*:
> ```csharp
> namespace N1 
> {
>     static class A 
>     {
>         public static void M(string s){}
>     }
>
>     static class B : A
>     {
>         public static void M2(string s){}
>     }
> }
> namespace N2
> {
>     using static N1.B;
>         class C
>         {

> >             void N() 

Reviewer: Brace at end of line.

> *Note*: The identifier `global` has special meaning only when used as the left-hand identifier of a *qualified_alias_name*. It is not a keyword and it is not itself an alias; it is a contextual keyword ([§7.4.4](lexical-structure.md#744-keywords)). In the code:
> ```csharp
> class A { }
>

> > class C

Author: This was one of 2 instances for K&R braces on `class` declarations. That's why I changed this one.

> Using `global` as the left-hand identifier of a *qualified_alias_member* always causes a lookup in the `global` namespace, even if there is a using alias named `global`. In the code:
> ```csharp
> using global = MyGlobalTypes;
>
> class A { }
>
> class C 

> > {

Author: second instance of K&R braces on a `class`
